Many of my favorite moments as a child, that I can recollect with as much clarity of mind as I can muster, are tied to me doing things that I love or doing them with people who were very important to me in those moments. I used to love doing these things because they gave me pure, unbridled joy and nothing else seemed higher a reward than that. Whether it was singing in the school or church choir (I used to have an amazing voice even till my teens, not the croaking sound that I hear when I sing along to my favorite songs these days, lol), playing the saxophone or guitar, Binge reading Nancy Drew, Rick Riordan, Robert Ludlum or John Grisham books, Watching wrestling for hours with my cousins or playing football with my childhood bestfriend, they were things I looked forward to. Life experiences that I could justify as true experiences of life. The thing is we all had these things. Every young adult I know can count a handful of hobbies that they loved engaging in when they were younger that they don't do anymore or just don't have the agency for. Now that's sad isn't it. 

We go through our childhood wanting to be adults so we have control over our life-decisions but then we grow up and miss being children and lose ability to find joy in the small things. Everything becomes about making a living, surviving in the hard world, reaching goals no one asked you to set and working till you drop to break generational patterns while looking to scale to heights beyond where your parents go to out of the unspoken pressure that comes from them. 

So where's the space for the little things that bring us joy, small pockets of moments filled with happiness that carry us through the days of our lives. We learn dedicate our lives to doing work and engaging in activities that bring us closer to our goals but forget how to do the things that keep us grounded and human. A Human isn't made to work, but to live, and this generation has forgotten how to do that so much so that even the things that are to be left as joy-giving, fun hobbies become monetized.

I want to go back to the days where we spent most of the day hanging out doing nothing so tasking with our best of friends and talking till our ears felt heavy with every word from our favorite person and our jaws are loaded with the weight of all the laughter in the middle of those conversations. I want to go back to the days when we decided to learn a new thing - instrument, dance style, game - just to impress ourselves and our friends, and not for gathering more followers or that hobby getting added to the numerous side gigs we are already losing count of.

I'm of the rationale that life should be lived up not worked off, so I'm intentionally going through everyday, finding moments that contain little doses of joy that bring a refreshing feel to life. Whether it's reading that sci-fi or fiction book instead of another book on management or some self help book and not feel guilty about it (although, I believe you should read some non-fiction, auto-biographies and books that teach you how to navigate some new skill like management, communication or systems thinking), spending a few hours talking with old friends about random parts of my life without feeling like I'm wasting time I could spent doing some work thing, going out to events that aren't work themed, or learning how to speak a new language because I want to understand and accurately sing my favorite non-English song from that foreign artist that I love, I'll take those moments when I get them because that the point of all this work, to be in a mind space where you're comfortable with experiencing all these little pleasures that life has to offer.

Here's my urging to you: Find those things that bring you pure joy and don't let them get suffocated with a need to be another income stream or be overshadowed by some work activity that wasn't really necessary in that moment. This is how you live and this is why you work, to live.

I hope you find new things that bring you joy this week.
